I write this to you - what more can be said? 
What more can I add to that one fact? 
For now I know it is in your power 
To punish me contemptuously for this act.
But you, keeping for my unhappy lot 
Even one drop of sympathy 
Will not entirely abandon me. 
At first I wished to remain silent; 
Believe me, my shame, my agony, 
You never ever would have heard. 
As long as hope remained preserved

That rarely, even once a week, 
I'd see you in our country house, 
To hear your voice, to hear you speak, 
To say a few words, and then, and then 
To think, and think, and think again 
All day, all night, until the next meeting.
But it is said you are unsociable, 
And in this backwater all is tedious to you, 
While we… well here we shine at nothing, 
Although we're glad to welcome you.

Why did you come to visit us? 
In this forgotten rural home 
Your face I never would have known 
Nor known this bitter suffering. 
The fever of inexperience 
In time (who can tell?) would have died down,
And I'd have found another lover, 
Dear to my heart, to whom I'd be true, 
And a loving wife, and virtuous mother.
Another!… No, no one on this earth 
Is there to whom I'd give my heart! 
That is ordained by highest fate… 
That is heaven's will - that I am yours; 
My life till now was but a pledge, 
Of meeting with you, a forward image; 
You were sent by heaven of that I'm sure, 
To the grave itself you are my saviour… 
In dreams you have appeared to me, 
Though yet unseen, I held you dear, 
Your glance and strangeness tortured me, 
To my soul your voice was loud and clear 
From long ago… It was not a dream!
You came, and I knew that very instant, 
I was struck dumb, my heart flared up, 
And in my thoughts said "He is the one!" 
Is it not true? I heard you often: 
In the silence did you not speak to me, 
Both when I helped the poor, and when 
With prayer I sought to ease and soften 
The pain inside my anguished head? 
And at this very moment, is it not you, 
Oh sweetest, lovely vision who 
In the night's transparency flits by 
And quietly nestles by the bed's head? 
And you, who with love and rapturously 
Whispered a word of hope to me?
Who are you, my guardian angel? 
Or a wily devil, a tempter fatal? 
Disperse these doubts, this agony. 
Perhaps all this is nothingness, 
A foolish mind's self-aberration, 
And something other is fate's decree… 
So be it! Whatever my destiny, 
To you I give it from this day, 
Before you the tears roll down my cheek, 
And your protection I beseech… 
For consider: here I am alone, 
No one understands what I say, 
My reason tortures me every day, 
And silently I am doomed to perish. 
You I await: With a single glance 
Revive the hope that's in my heart, 
Cut short this heavy dream I cherish, 
Deserving, I know, reproach and scorn.

I finish - I tremble to read it through, 
With shame and terror my heart sinks low,
But your honour is my guarantee
And to that I entrust my destiny.